= omniauth-figshare

* https://github.com/jdleesmiller/omniauth-figshare

== SYNOPSIS

An OmniAuth Strategy for the figshare API. You can use it to authenticate users
against the figshare API in your ruby on rails / sinatra / other rack-based web
application.

=== Usage

Add this strategy to your Gemfile:

  gem 'omniauth-figshare'

Then add the strategy as Rack middleware. In rails, you can add an initializer
+config/initializers/omniauth.rb+ containing 

  Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
    provider :figshare,
      ENV['FIGSHARE_CONSUMER_KEY'],
      ENV['FIGSHARE_CONSUMER_SECRET'],
  end

where the consumer key and secret are obtained from your figshare app's
settings and stored in environmental variables.

Then create routes 

  match '/auth/figshare/callback', to: 'authentications#create'
  match "/auth/failure", to: "authentications#failure"

and an +AuthenticationController+ to handle the postback from figshare upon
successful (or failed) authentication:

  class AuthenticationsController < ApplicationController
    #
    # We use this only to connect oauth accounts to existing wL accounts, at
    # present.
    #
    def create
      auth = env["omniauth.auth"]
      # ...
      # You should store
      #   auth.credentials.token
      #   auth.credentials.secret
      # for future authentication against the figshare API. auth[:uid] is the
      # user's figshare user id.
      #
      # hint: check env['omniauth.origin'] to redirect the user to wherever they
      # were trying to get to before connecting
    end
  end

For more information, see

* http://railscasts.com/episodes/241-simple-omniauth
* https://github.com/intridea/omniauth/wiki

=== Notes

Figshare supports OAuth 1.0, so this is just a light wrapper over the standard
OmniAuth OAuth strategy.

This is an extraction from writeLaTeX, the online scientific writing platform
(www.writelatex.com).

== LICENSE

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2013 John Lees-Miller

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

